{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Georgia;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 Georgia-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww26180\viewh14580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 NPC README - mpc emulator for the monome
\fs24 \
peter@flatflat.org\
http://flatflat.org\
\
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
NO WARRANTY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.  read the license. have fun!\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\

\f1\b REQUIREMENTS:
\f0\b0 \
MAXMSP 4.6 RUNTIME OR FULL VERSION (Max 5 expermental)\
MONOMESERIAL (most recent version)\
A MONOME\
\

\f1\b VERSION NOTES:
\f0\b0 \

\f1\b 0.5
\f0\b0 \
Initial release\
\

\f1\b 0.52 
\f0\b0 \
fixed init problems\
seq rec problems\
file routing issues\
and a few smaller bits\

\f1\b \
0.60
\f0\b0 \
=new features= // see below for more detailed explainations\
resampling (12 buffers)\
channel volume (no learning yet)\
more vsts\
vst learning // change a vst param. hit learn. send a cc val.  ** buggy sometimes vsts need to be reloaded for this to work.... i think it's a 4.6 thing.  \
prefs.txt allows user to set prefs on bootup // open the prefs .txt file to change various boot params\
track display now shows row / column along with number\
delete key does tap tempo\
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
QUICK START\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
*general metaphor - the top half of your monome is 'tracks', the bottom half is 'pads' that make sounds*\
\
Make sure audio is on in the upper left hand corner of the npc window\
\
Drag sounds onto waveform display directly below 'VOICE'\
\
Click 'OPTIONS' in the upper left hand corner and then click GENERATE under the heading PAD GENERATOR SLICER\
\
Taps some pads on the lower half of your monome and start playing!\
\
hit return to start playback.  click the off button next to the click button to turn on the metronome.\
\
hit a button on the upper half of your monome, then hit the space bar.  then hit the R key.\
\
tap out a pattern with the pads.  your pattern should be recorded.  IF you made a mistake hit the c key twice.  replay your pattern.  \
\
unmute a different track.  hit the spacebar to select that track.  hit r again to go into record mode.  tap out a pattern using different pads.  \
\
hit a pad that has a sound you'd like to fix.  hit the v key or the enter key.  the data for that voice should come up in the voice area.  edit away.\
\
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
NPC MANUAL // work in progress\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\
This program is a rough emulation of the software of an akai mpc.  It utilizes the open source hardware developed by monome.org.  Below some basic definitions are outlined along with step by step instructions for creating a piece of music with npc.\
\
sound / sample - these are either wav or aif files that you drag and drop onto the main waveform window of npc.  \
each sample can only be heard in npc if it is used by a voice.\
\

\f1\b voice
\f0\b0  - voices are the intermediate step between a sample and a pad on your monome.  you must either hand make or generate voices via the options window, and then assign these voices to a pad.  voices use one sample each and have the following parameters.  \
\

\f1\b sample
\f0\b0  - the sample or sound assosciated with this voice\

\f1\b volume
\f0\b0  - this is the volume that you will hear the sample you have selected for this voice\

\f1\b panning
\f0\b0  - the panning of this voice\

\f1\b envelope
\f0\b0  - the 5 point adsr envelope for changing the attack and decay of this sound.\

\f1\b start point 
\f0\b0 - the beginning point of playback within the sample defined by the selection in the waveform window \

\f1\b end point
\f0\b0  - the ending point of playback within the sample defined by the selection in the waveform window \

\f1\b loop toggle
\f0\b0  - this specifies whether the sound loops plays in one shot mode.  \
- if loop is on, the length parameter dictates how long you will hear the voice regardless of the start and end point selection of the sample.  the envelope is consequently mapped to the the length value as well.\
- if loop is off, the sample will playback in oneshot mode, and the envelope is mapped to the length of the selection within the sample.\
\

\f1\b loop length
\f0\b0  - the length of time you will hear the sound if loop is enabled.\

\f1\b pitch
\f0\b0  - the pitch of playback.  in standard 12 note tuning\

\f1\b fine pitch
\f0\b0  - this will interpolate between half steps by 100 cents\

\f1\b reverse toggle
\f0\b0  - this will reverse the playback of the sound\

\f1\b output routing 
\f0\b0 - this specifies which output the sound will playback through, and consequently which group of vsts the sound will playback through.  all sounds that have the same output routing are globally controllable by that channels volume.\
\

\f1\b pad
\f0\b0  - a pad refers to the pads on your monome.  to hear sound from npc you must have one or more voices assigned to a pad and then press that pad.  you may create several voices and then select a pad and click the 'add to pad' button to add multiple voices to one pad.  to edit each voice simple hit enter or v to toggle between the various voices on the selected pad.  \
\
*currently the pads you have access to are on the bottom half of your monome, while tracks are on the top half*\
\

\f1\b track
\f0\b0  - a track is a recording of a playing one or more pads.  to record a track, unmute it by hitting the button.  it should light up, you may then hit the space bar to select that track.  you will see the track number and it's row and column value updated in the npc window.  hit the return key to begin playback and hit the r key or record on the screen to begin recording. tap various pads to hear them recorded.  quantization is on by default but can be turned off in the prefs text file in the npc folder and of course toggled in the npc window itself.  each track can have an independent length and the default length can be set in the prefs text file.  \
\
\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
KEYS\
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\

\fs26 active keys\
\
space\
escape\
enter\
return\
command\
control\
shift\
left and right arrow\
up and down arrow\
r f g v c e m 0\
delete\
\
\
spacebar - if you just muted or unmuted a track on the upper half of the monome the space bar will select that track if you just hit a pad on the lower half to make a sound hitting the space bar will take you into big pad mode.\
\
return - this will start and stop playback\
enter - if you have a full keyboard this will bring up the last pad you touched for editing.  the v key also does this.\
\
escape - this serves a variety of purposes:  all notes off, cancel duplicate, cancel clear track.\
\
up and down arrow keys - these will navigate you through pages.  if you select some other number box, they will increment or decrement that box until you  click out side of it.\
\
left and right arrow keys - (only active on the 64 and 128) these will let you access the first or second set of pads and tracks.  \
\
control, shift and command keys - these will help you quickly manipulate waveforms in the waveform window.  command + drag will zoom in and out. shift and drag adjusts a previous selection, control and drag will move the current selection and resize it based on mouse height.\
\
r - this will start recording for the currently selected track\
f - this will play the currently active voice\
g - this will play the currently active pad\
v - this will play and bring up the last touched pad for editing
\fs24 \
c - this will clear the active track of data if hit twice\
e - this will erase any pad activity in the currently selected track if held down with the pad intended to be removed\
m - this will toggle the mute of the currently selected track\
0 - this will open the options window.\
delete - will tap the tempo\

\fs26 *experimental*\
d - duplicates a pad\
t - copies all the data in a track
\fs24 \
\
have fun!\
\
}